# major-project-btech
Major Project for 18103020 and 18103077 for BTech CSE at NITJ

# Abstract

Vehicle Monitoring and Surveillance (VMS) systems aim to reinstate security and authorization access and permissions in a smart way through the use of image recognition and automated set of tools to manage vehicle traffic within residential or business premises in an efficient way. VMS uses Machine learning algorithms for image detection and recognition with a complete backend framework that connects to a server and multiple service endpoints using 4G LTE and is tailored to suit the applications in an institute complex, specifically National Institute of Technology Jalandhar. The main objective of this project is to automate the security mechanism to reduce the workload of security personnels on duty. An important point to note is that the VMS system does not provide an all round self dependent surveillance and monitoring system but instead supplements the already existing security force with next generation technologies to boost the security and increase the efficiency of the checkpoint located at the entries and exits of the institute premises.

VMS system provides automation in entry and exit time stamps of vehicles, declining or approving permission of vehicle entry, recording the vehicle details along with the details of the owner of the vehicle without human interaction and inquiry of documents, along with a well documented soft record of all the vehicles using YOLO and DeepSort. This system also provides speed detection and an automated fine system to the accounts of the vehicles which break the speed limit barrier.

YOLO is an object detector which  uses features learned by a deep convolutional neural network to detect an object. Main core concept of YOLO is to use a single neural network to predict bounding boxes and class probabilities directly from full images in one evaluation. The whole detection pipeline is a single network, so it can be optimized end-to-end directly on detection performance. An object detector which  uses features learned by a deep convolutional neural network to detect an object.Main core concept of YOLO is to use a single neural network to predict bounding boxes and class probabilities directly from full images in one evaluation. The whole detection pipeline is a single network, so it can be optimized end-to-end directly on detection performance.

The YOLO algorithms, unlike other algorithms, involve the splitting of the image into multiple cells and depending upon how many objects are covered in the image, multiple bounding boxes are predicted by each cell. This causes the creation of a large number of bounding boxes, and in this process, there may arise bounding boxes that do not contain any object at all or also intersected bounding boxes that share the same spaces of the image. To get rid of this issue, a non-max suppression technique is used wherein such shared spaces are nullified, and also pc value is predicted to identify the boxes with no objects and ensure their removal.

DEEP SORT is an extension to SORT (Simple Real time Tracker).The main idea of a Kalman filter is to use the available detections and previous predictions to arrive at a best guess of the current state, while keeping the possibility of errors in the process. Kalman filter works best for linear systems with Gaussian processes involved. In our case the tracks hardly leave the linear realm and also, most processes and even noise in fall into the Gaussian realm. So, the problem is suited for the use of Kalman filters.
